our garden was a vision when I had a
fourth-grade girl chopping green beans
with her kindergarten buddy making Stone
Soup and she stopped me and she asked me
mrs. Andrus what is this and it was a
green bean and I realized that I had a
group of students going through our
school that didn't know what vegetables
were or where they came from
and I couldn't have that happen we have
kale chips we have made two Zekey out of
our cucumbers and what's so exciting is
a lot of the fruits and vegetables that
we grow and we beat here are vegetables
that the kids don't eat at home and the
parents are amazed since they've grown
the vegetable now I know of a fruit that
I didn't like before but now I like
because I try it again the garden it was
a fresh cut block day
I used to think every star but oh those
are good it the garden hadn't been used
for a couple of years the garden kind of
you know rest has it's been nothing much
was happening inside so I just thought
it was a really great space for kids to
come in and and learn so that's how I
started thinking about getting it going
together tonight favorite plant in the
garden
the radishes because you do the end of
her mighty radishes and the beasts good
kids do like fruits and vegetables there
isn't anything that we've grown in the
garden that I've I've seen any of the
kids reject it's it's crack-up fake we
prepare salads we we just do taste tests
right out of the beds and all of them
are eager to try it and I've had kids
come back in tears because they did not
get any Swiss chard I'm not exaggerating
one great when we were doing a unit on
corn and I told them yeah you know
there's lots of lots of uses for these
corns we can grind it up and eat it or
we could actually take this and plants
at the ground corn plant you could just
kind of see her take a second to work
that idea through her brain and then she
said so high-tech this and put it in the
ground
this was sprout and grow a new plant and
so we did I mean she just dug a hole
drops and then and then at class two
weeks later and she saw it coming up and
I just fell in love with it right away
because I found it so cool to be I have
a class on it and to be outside a lot
and picking stuff and then cooking with
it and
almost your own garden it's just about
nurturing something and washing it
change and being able to do so many
different things farmers do everything
we're sawing we're cutting we're
drilling we're digging we're G what's
that pest let's find out how can we take
care of it what eats them and they're so
excited and the kids were coming on the
weekends on their own time with watering
well they chose it because they thought
it would be fun but it's been so much
more than they thought to do right now
we're doing hydroponics but last year we
did
aquaponics so that's like fish and
plants working together to keep each
other alive and ammonia from the fish
keep stuff planet life and the planet
converts the dirty water it's clean so
like they're both working together but
the idea of taking on the project of a
school garden can seem really daunting I
just want to encourage people to know
that it's really not that hard with the
right resources and the right support
within their community it can really
happen and it doesn't have to be on a
large scale like this it can be
something as simple as it better to that
can be enough to hook the teacher and a
bunch of students to if we didn't have
the garden here I would be really sad
and I would probably plant a garden like
I won't be able to help anymore
if we didn't have the garden I would
feel disappointed because this is mainly
what we do every day and they really
feel proud of that they're just so proud
of their harvest and they can't wait to
take it home to share with their family
they own this and this is testament to
everybody here at this place in these
high schools where kids seem to be so
epithet ik and so disengaged when they
have something they own but they can
take care of the nurture I don't have to
tell them a thing